In Unit 2 of this course
you will learn the basic elements of
creating a simple web page using HTML.
This unit is all about the content and structure
of your web pages.
It's tempting to think about how you want your
web page to look, but that comes later.
In the next unit you will learn about
how to make your content look good.
But first, you need to create the content.
Prior to doing any actual coding,
you’ll need to consider the site's purpose.
Is it to sell?
To inform?
To entertain?
With the site's purpose and target audience in mind,
you can plan out the site.
In this course you'll be creating a portfolio site,
and the overall structure of that site
is essentially planned out for you.
But you'll have an opportunity to do
a pre-planning exercise
to at least get you thinking
about the process.
Finally, it will be time to code.
The primary language that web pages are written in
is HTML.
In Unit 1 you learned that HTML has been around
since the early 1990's
and there are several versions of this language.
In this course you'll be using the latest version,
HTML5.
No special software is necessary.
All you really need to start creating web pages right now
is a simple text editor...
a web browser...
and a bit of coding know-how.
In HTML5, the only tags that are required
are the doctype tag, which tells the browser
which version of HTML you're using...
And the title tag, which shows up in the title bar
of the browser window.
Of course, if you only used these two tags, you
wouldn't have a very interesting web page.
In this unit you will learn a variety of
other tags as well, including...
Headings...
Subheadings...
Paragraphs...
Ordered lists...
And unordered lists...
A common example of a list that appears on most
web pages is a navigation menu,
which is essentially a list of the web pages
that comprise the site.
You'll use HTML list tags to create
a navigation menu for your portfolio site.
Of course, since this unit is about content,
not presentation,
it won't look like the navigation menus
you're accustomed to.
But again, that will come later.
You'll also learn how to add links to web pages.
For example, a navigation menu isn't just a list of
web pages – it's a list of links to web pages.
You’ll also learn how to add tables to your site.
Tables are great for showing relationships
between data using rows and columns.
All of the tags we've talked about so far
have been around for a long time,
in some cases since the very first version of HTML.
You'll also have an opportunity to explore some of
the brand new tags that are introduced in HTML5
including semantic tags like...
and many more, each of which marks up a
specific region of the web page.
Another exciting new feature in HTML5
is that you can now add audio or video
to your web pages with very little code.
In fact, you might even be watching this video
in an HTML5 video format.